[RF DOCS] Action Mailbox Documention [ci-skip] (#50973)
rails/rails: guides/source/action_mailbox_basics.md

What is Action Mailbox?
-----------------------

> Action Mailbox routes incoming emails to controller-like mailboxes for processing in your Rails application. Action Mailbox is for receiving email, while [Action Mailer](action_mailer_basics.html) is for *sending* them.

Reviewer: I really like how this streamlines the introduction to Action Mailbox and clarifying the difference to Action Mailer! 

Something I think could have tripped up developers in the past.

Author: Yes exactly! Since they both have to do with emails.

The inbound emails are routed asynchronously using [Active Job](active_job_basics.html) to one or several dedicated mailboxes. These emails are turned into [`InboundEmail`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/InboundEmail.html) records using [Active Record](active_record_basics.html), which are capable of interacting directly with the rest of your domain model.

`InboundEmail` records also provide lifecycle tracking, storage of the original email via [Active Storage](active_storage_overview.html), and responsible data handling with on-by-default [incineration](#incineration-of-inboundemails).

Action Mailbox ships with ingresses which enable your application to receive emails from external email providers such as Mailgun, Mandrill, Postmark, and SendGrid. You can also handle inbound emails directly via the built-in Exim, Postfix, and Qmail ingresses.

## Setup

> Action Mailbox has a few moving parts. First you'll run the installer. Then configure a chosen ingress for handling incoming email. You're then ready to add Action Mailbox routing, create mailboxes and start processing incoming emails.

Reviewer: Great explainer of what the setup means before walking through.

> Action Mailbox has a few moving parts. First you'll run the installer. Then configure a chosen ingress for handling incoming email. You're then ready to add Action Mailbox routing, create mailboxes and start processing incoming emails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action Mailbox has a few moving parts. First, you'll run the installer. Next, you'll choose and configure an ingress for handling incoming email. You're then ready to add Action Mailbox routing, create mailboxes, and start processing incoming emails.
```

> To start let's install Action Mailbox:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start, let's install Action Mailbox:
```

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:install
```

This will create an `application_mailbox.rb` file and copy over migrations.

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate
```

This will run the Action Mailbox and Active Storage migrations.

> The Action Mailbox table `action_mailbox_inbound_emails` stores incoming messages and their processing 'status'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Action Mailbox table `action_mailbox_inbound_emails` stores incoming messages and their processing status.
```

> At this point you can start your rails server and check out `http://localhost:3000/rails/conductor/action_mailbox/inbound_emails`. See [Local Development and Testing](#local-development-and-testing) for more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, you can start your Rails server and check out `http://localhost:3000/rails/conductor/action_mailbox/inbound_emails`. See [Local Development and Testing](#local-development-and-testing) for more.
```

NOTE: When configuring your SendGrid Inbound Parse webhook, be sure to check the box labeled **“Post the raw, full MIME message.”** Action Mailbox needs the raw MIME message to work.

## Processing Incoming Email

Processing incoming emails usually entails using the email content to create models, update views, queue background work, etc. in your Rails application.

Before you can start processing incoming emails, you'll need to setup Action Mailbox routing and create mailboxes.

### Configure Routing

> After an incoming email is received via the configured ingress, it needs to be forwarded to a mailbox for actual processing by your application. Much like the [Rails router](routing.html) that dispatches URLs to controllers, routing in Action Mailbox defines which emails go to which mailboxes for processing. Routes are added to the `application_mailbox.rb` file using regular expression:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After an incoming email is received via the configured ingress, it needs to be forwarded to a mailbox for actual processing by your application. Much like the [Rails router](routing.html) that dispatches URLs to controllers, routing in Action Mailbox defines which emails go to which mailboxes for processing. Routes are added to the `application_mailbox.rb` file using regular expressions:
```

end
```

> The regular expression matches the incoming email's `to`, `cc`, or `bcc` fields. For example, the above will match any email sent to `save@` to a 'forwards' mailbox. There are other ways to route an email, see [`ActionMailbox::Base API`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/Base.html) for more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The regular expression matches the incoming email's `to`, `cc`, or `bcc` fields. For example, the above will match any email sent to `save@` to a "forwards" mailbox. There are other ways to route an email; see [`ActionMailbox::Base API`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/Base.html) for more.
```

> We need to create that 'forwards' mailbox next.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We need to create that "forwards" mailbox next.
```

### Create a Mailbox

```bash
# Generate new mailbox
$ bin/rails generate mailbox forwards
```

This creates `app/mailboxes/forwards_mailbox.rb`, with a `ForwardsMailbox` class and a `process` method.

### Process Email

> When processing an `InboundEmail`, you can get the parsed version of the email as a [`Mail`](https://github.com/mikel/mail) object with `InboundEmail#mail`. You can also get the raw source directly using the `#source` method. With `Mail` object, you can access the relevant fields, such as `mail.to`, `mail.body.decoded`, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When processing an `InboundEmail`, you can get the parsed version of the email as a [`Mail`](https://github.com/mikel/mail) object with `InboundEmail#mail`. You can also get the raw source directly using the `#source` method. With the `Mail` object, you can access the relevant fields, such as `mail.to`, `mail.body.decoded`, etc.
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: I love seeing this code walkthrough explicitly, very helpful.

Author: The README of that `mail` library was good read :)

$ mail
#<Mail::Message:33780, Multipart: false, Headers: <Date: Wed, 31 Jan 2024 22:18:40 -0600>, <From: someone@hey.com>, <To: save@example.com>, <Message-ID: <65bb1ba066830_50303a70397e@Bhumis-MacBook-Pro.local.mail>>, <In-Reply-To: >, <Subject: Hello Action Mailbox>, <Mime-Version: 1.0>, <Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8>, <Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit>, <x-original-to: >>
$ mail.to
["save@example.com"]
$ mail.from
["someone@hey.com"]
$ mail.date
Wed, 31 Jan 2024 22:18:40 -0600
$ mail.subject
"Hello Action Mailbox"
$ mail.body
#<Mail::Body:0x00007fc74cbf46c0 @boundary=nil, @preamble=nil, @epilogue=nil, @charset="US-ASCII", @part_sort_order=["text/plain", "text/enriched", "text/html", "multipart/alternative"], @parts=[], @raw_source="This is the body of the email message.", @ascii_only=true, @encoding="7bit">
$ mail.body.decoded
"This is the body of the email message."
```

### Inbound Email Status

Once an email has been routed to a matching mailbox and processed, Action Mailbox updates the email status stored in `action_mailbox_inbound_emails` table with one of the following values:

> - `pending`: Just received by one of the ingress controllers and scheduled for routing.

Reviewer: Would it read more cleanly with "Just" removed?

- `processing`: During active processing, while a specific mailbox is running its `process` method.
- `delivered`: Successfully processed by the specific mailbox.
- `failed`: An exception was raised during the specific mailbox’s execution of the `process` method.
- `bounced`: Rejected processing by the specific mailbox and bounced to sender.

> If the email is marked either `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced` it's considered 'processed' and marked for [incineration](#incineration-of-inboundemails).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the email is marked either `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced`, it's considered "processed" and marked for [incineration](#incineration-of-inboundemails).
```

## Example

> Here is an example of an Action Mailbox that processes emails to create 'forwards' for the user's project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example of an Action Mailbox that processes emails to create "forwards" for the user's project.
```

The `before_processing` callback is used to ensure that certain conditions are met before `process` method is called. In this case, `before_processing` checks that the user has at least one project. Other supported [Action Mailbox callbacks](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/Callbacks.html) are `after_processing` and `around_processing`.

> The email can be bounced using `bounced_with` if the 'forwarder' has no projects. The 'forwarder' is a `User` with the same email as `mail.from`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The email can be bounced using `bounced_with` if the "forwarder" has no projects. The "forwarder" is a `User` with the same email as `mail.from`.
```

> If the 'forwarder' does have at least one project, the `record_forward` method creates an Active Record model in the application using the email data `mail.subject` and `mail.content`. Otherwise it sends an email, using Action Mailer, requesting the 'forwarder' to choose a project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the "forwarder" does have at least one project, the `record_forward` method creates an Active Record model in the application using the email's `mail.subject` and `mail.content`. Otherwise, it sends an email using Action Mailer that requests that the "forwarder" choose a project.
```

end
```

The regular expression matches the incoming email's `to`, `cc`, or `bcc` fields. For example, the above will match any email sent to `save@` to a "forwards" mailbox. There are other ways to route an email, see [`ActionMailbox::Base API`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/Base.html) for more.

We need to create that "forwards" mailbox next.

### Create a Mailbox

```bash
# Generate new mailbox
$ bin/rails generate mailbox forwards
```

This creates `app/mailboxes/forwards_mailbox.rb`, with a `ForwardsMailbox` class and a `process` method.

### Process Email

When processing an `InboundEmail`, you can get the parsed version of the email as a [`Mail`](https://github.com/mikel/mail) object with `InboundEmail#mail`. You can also get the raw source directly using the `#source` method. With the `Mail` object, you can access the relevant fields, such as `mail.to`, `mail.body.decoded`, etc.

> ```bash
> $ mail
> #<Mail::Message:33780, Multipart: false, Headers: <Date: Wed, 31 Jan 2024 22:18:40 -0600>, <From: someone@hey.com>, <To: save@example.com>, <Message-ID: <65bb1ba066830_50303a70397e@Bhumis-MacBook-Pro.local.mail>>, <In-Reply-To: >, <Subject: Hello Action Mailbox>, <Mime-Version: 1.0>, <Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8>, <Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit>, <x-original-to: >>
> $ mail.to
> ["save@example.com"]
> $ mail.from
> ["someone@hey.com"]
> $ mail.date
> Wed, 31 Jan 2024 22:18:40 -0600
> $ mail.subject
> "Hello Action Mailbox"
> $ mail.body
> #<Mail::Body:0x00007fc74cbf46c0 @boundary=nil, @preamble=nil, @epilogue=nil, @charset="US-ASCII", @part_sort_order=["text/plain", "text/enriched", "text/html", "multipart/alternative"], @parts=[], @raw_source="This is the body of the email message.", @ascii_only=true, @encoding="7bit">
> $ mail.body.decoded
> "This is the body of the email message."
> # mail.decoded, a shorthand for mail.body.decoded, also works
> $ mail.decoded
> "This is the body of the email message."
> ```

Reviewer 2: This is IRB, not bash.  Other guides [use an IRB code fence](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/6e7ef7d61c7146ca03b173abc32f7ed97e3d949a/guides/source/active_record_querying.md?plain=1#L172-L176).

```suggestion
```irb
irb> mail
=> #<Mail::Message:33780, Multipart: false, Headers: <Date: Wed, 31 Jan 2024 22:18:40 -0600>, <From: someone@hey.com>, <To: save@example.com>, <Message-ID: <65bb1ba066830_50303a70397e@Bhumis-MacBook-Pro.local.mail>>, <In-Reply-To: >, <Subject: Hello Action Mailbox>, <Mime-Version: 1.0>, <Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8>, <Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit>, <x-original-to: >>
irb> mail.to
=> ["save@example.com"]
irb> mail.from
=> ["someone@hey.com"]
irb> mail.date
=> Wed, 31 Jan 2024 22:18:40 -0600
irb> mail.subject
=> "Hello Action Mailbox"
irb> mail.body
=> #<Mail::Body:0x00007fc74cbf46c0 @boundary=nil, @preamble=nil, @epilogue=nil, @charset="US-ASCII", @part_sort_order=["text/plain", "text/enriched", "text/html", "multipart/alternative"], @parts=[], @raw_source="This is the body of the email message.", @ascii_only=true, @encoding="7bit">
irb> mail.body.decoded
=> "This is the body of the email message."
# mail.decoded, a shorthand for mail.body.decoded, also works
irb> mail.decoded
=> "This is the body of the email message."
```
```

- `processing`: During active processing, while a specific mailbox is running its `process` method.
- `delivered`: Successfully processed by the specific mailbox.
- `failed`: An exception was raised during the specific mailbox’s execution of the `process` method.
- `bounced`: Rejected processing by the specific mailbox and bounced to sender.

If the email is marked either `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced` it's considered "processed" and marked for [incineration](#incineration-of-inboundemails).

## Example

Here is an example of an Action Mailbox that processes emails to create "forwards" for the user's project.

The `before_processing` callback is used to ensure that certain conditions are met before `process` method is called. In this case, `before_processing` checks that the user has at least one project. Other supported [Action Mailbox callbacks](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/Callbacks.html) are `after_processing` and `around_processing`.

The email can be bounced using `bounced_with` if the "forwarder" has no projects. The "forwarder" is a `User` with the same email as `mail.from`.

> If the "forwarder" does have at least one project, the `record_forward` method creates an Active Record model in the application using the email data `mail.subject` and `mail.body.decoded`. Otherwise, it sends an email, using Action Mailer, requesting the "forwarder" to choose a project.

Reviewer 3: Minor: maybe we just use the shortcut version, `mail.decoded`?
```suggestion
If the "forwarder" does have at least one project, the `record_forward` method creates an Active Record model in the application using the email data `mail.subject` and `mail.decoded`. Otherwise, it sends an email, using Action Mailer, requesting the "forwarder" to choose a project.
```

    end

    def record_forward

>       forwarder.forwards.create subject: mail.subject, content: mail.body.decoded

Reviewer 3: Minor: maybe we just use the shortcut version, `mail.decoded`?

```suggestion
      forwarder.forwards.create subject: mail.subject, content: mail.decoded
```

    recording = people(:david).buckets.first.recordings.last
    assert_equal people(:david), recording.creator
    assert_equal "Status update?", recording.forward.subject

>     assert_match "What's the status?", recording.forward.decoded.to_s

Reviewer 3: I believe this should still be `content`, as it's related to the `forward` Active Record model, `content` column. (Not the mail object) That's how the example above stores it: `content: mail.body.decoded` (or `content: mail.decoded` if we use the shortcut method mentioned as well)

```suggestion
    assert_match "What's the status?", recording.forward.content.to_s
```

  end
end
```

Please refer to the [ActionMailbox::TestHelper API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/TestHelper.html) for further test helper methods.

## Incineration of InboundEmails

> By default, an `InboundEmail` that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. The InboundEmail is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced`.

Reviewer 3: This is the only instance where `InboudEmail` is not shown as code, let's wrap it too for consistency with the rest, since it's actually referring to the object in code:

```suggestion
By default, an `InboundEmail` that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. The `InboundEmail` is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced`.
```

Alternatively, we can consider skipping the second mention in the paragraph:

```suggestion
By default, an `InboundEmail` that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. It is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced`.
```

```

Please refer to the [ActionMailbox::TestHelper API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/TestHelper.html) for further test helper methods.

## Incineration of InboundEmails

> By default, an `InboundEmail` that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. The InboundEmail is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed` or `bounced`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, an `InboundEmail` that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. The InboundEmail is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced`.
```

The actual incineration is done via the [`IncinerationJob`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/IncinerationJob.html) that's scheduled to run after [`config.action_mailbox.incinerate_after`](configuring.html#config-action-mailbox-incinerate-after) time. This value is set to `30.days` by default, but you can change it in your production.rb configuration. (Note that this far-future incineration scheduling relies on your job queue being able to hold jobs for that long.)

Default data incineration ensures that you're not holding on to people's data unnecessarily after they may have canceled their accounts or deleted their content.

> The intention with Action Mailbox processing is that as you process an email, you should extract all the data you need from the email and persist into domain models in your application. The `InboundEmail` simply stays in the system for the extra time to allow for debugging and forensic and then will be deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The intention with Action Mailbox processing is that as you process an email, you should extract all the data you need from the email and persist it into domain models in your application. The `InboundEmail` stays in the system for the configured time to allow for debugging and forensics and then will be deleted.
```
